# Applied-Statistics
This project uses Plotting distribution, Visualization and Hypothesis Testing to validate statistical evidence and leverage information to make effective decisions Part 1 - Answering Industry Problems through Statistical inferences Part 2 - Analyze past tournament information to make informative investment decisions. Part 3 - Analyzing the status of various startups that participated in the Startup Battlefield which is the world’s pre-eminent startup competition.
Skills and Tools : EDA, Data Visualization, Statistical Inference, Hypothesis Testing, Python
# PART B:
# DOMAIN: Sports
# CONTEXT: Company X manages the men's top professional basketball division of the American league system. The dataset contains information on all the teams that have     participated in all the past tournaments. It has data about how many baskets each team scored, conceded, how many times they came within the first 2 positions, how       many tournaments they have qualified, their best position in the past, etc.
# DATA DESCRIPTION: Basketball.csv - The data set contains information on all the teams so far participated in all the past tournaments.
# DATA DICTIONARY1.Team: Team’s name2.Tournament: Number of played tournaments.3.Score: Team’s score so far.4.PlayedGames: Games played by the team so far.5.WonGames:    Games won by the team so far.6.DrawnGames: Games drawn by the team so far.7.LostGames: Games lost by the team so far.8.BasketScored: Basket scored by the team so far.9.BasketGiven: Basket scored against the team so far.10.TournamentChampion: How many times the team was a champion of the tournaments so far.11.Runner-up: How many times the team was a runners-up of the tournaments so far.12.TeamLaunch: Year the team was launched on professional basketball.13.HighestPositionHeld: Highest position held by the team amongst all the tournaments played.
# PROJECT  OBJECTIVE: Company’s management wants to invest on proposals on managing some of the best teams in the league. The analytics department has been assigned with a task of creating a report on the performance shown by the teams. Some of the older teams are already in contract with competitors. Hence Company X wants to           understand which teams they can approach which will be a deal win for them.
# PARTC:
# DOMAIN: Startup ecosystem
# CONTEXT: Company  X  is  a  EU  online  publisher  focusing  on  the  startups  industry.  The  company  specifically  reports  on  the  business  related  to technology news, analysis of emerging trends and profiling of new tech businesses and products. Their event i.e. Startup Battlefield is the world’s pre-eminent  startup  competition.  Startup  Battlefield  features  15-30  top  early  stage  startups  pitching  top  judges  in  front  of  a  vast  live  audience, present in person and online.
# DATA DESCRIPTION: CompanyX_EU.csv - Each row in the dataset is a Start-up company and the columns describe the company. 
# DATA DICTIONARY:1.Startup: Name of the company2.Product: Actual product3.Funding: Funds raised by the company in USD4.Event: The event the company participated in5.Result: Described by Contestant, Finalist, Audience choice, Winner or Runner up6.OperatingState: Current status of the company, Operating ,Closed, Acquired or IPO*Dataset has been downloaded from the internet. All the credit for the dataset goes to the original creator of the data.
# PROJECT  OBJECTIVE: Analyse  the  data  of  the  various  companies  from  the  given  dataset  and  perform  the  tasks  that  are  specified  in  the  below steps.  Draw  insights  from  the  various  attributes  that  are  present  in  the  dataset,  plot  distributions,  state  hypotheses  and  draw  conclusions  from the dataset.
